Welcome to "The Butterfly Effect", Milestone 8.2.

This is a fully playable game of beta quality, well on its way to a shiny
1.0 release. For anyone who has played earlier versions of the game, you'll
notice several new levels, a much improved user interface and a level creator!

You can download the game at its website, 
go to          http://the-butterfly-effect.org/

If you downloaded the source archive - please refer to the file INSTALLING
to learn how to turn the sources into a working game and RUNNING on how
to run the game.

If you downloaded the installer, you now have an icon on your desktop: 
just (double-)click it to enjoy the game.

There are 35 levels.
All levels are playable, a few levels may need a bit more polish.

Improvements in Milestone 8.2:
    * Translations were not available for Windows users
    * Level data values are no longer written using localized parameters
    * Fixed a crash in the Level Creator
    * Fixed a synchronisation issue between stopwatch and scene
    * Fixed a level (im perfect balance) that didn't work as expected

Improvements in Milestone 8.1:
    * TBE crashed for many people when the Bowling Pin was used.
      This is a numerical stability issue and was resolved by making
      the bowling pin slightly larger. See ticket:228.

New features & highlights in Milestone 8:
    * Level Creator - see below
    * 6 new levels, 
      introducing the following new objects:
      - Balloon
      - Cactus (pops Balloon)
      - Bed of Nails (also pops Balloon)
      - Link (to connect two objects)
      - Translation Joint (limits movement to 1 axis, prevents rotation)
      - the ability to put a torque and/or speed on a PivotPoint
    * Many fixes to the usability of the user interface
    * Partial translations into Spanish, full translation into Dutch.


The Level Creator
This is a new feature of TBE. You can now adapt the existing levels or create your own.
Currently the Level Creator is still a bit rough on the edges. If you have never worked with
CAD applications, it may not be your cup of tea yet - but please try!
We are writing a manual for the Level Creator in our wiki:
https://sf.net/apps/trac/tbe/wiki/LevelCreator

Alternative solutions
If you feel you found a solution to a level that is not right, please file
a ticket against it or mail the level mailing list. More info is availble in the 
Help menus.

Running in English, Dutch or Spanish
We promise to make this selectable in the UI for the next milestone (ticket 83).
However, if you need to change language, start TBE from the command line and
type:
   LANG="nl" ./tbe
Of course, for English you use "en" and for spanish "es".

Known bugs and issues:
  * Some images may have a 'garbage line ' on one or more borders during play.
    This is harmless but may be confusing. ticket:89
  * The installers do not install into the "start menu", ticket:97
  * The Level Creator isn't finished, nor really polished yet.
    The manual of the Level Creator discusses the limitations, 
    tickets 132, 147, 149, 151, 171, 177, 178 and others.
  * Do not use the Level Creator in any language other than English, as it may
    affect how TBE is writing its XML files. Tickets 83 and 220.


We thank our beta players for their comments on the playability of the levels.
Especially all attendees at T-Dose 2010, who really helped!

We would love to hear your thoughts and comments about the game!

Don't be shy - post your thoughts in the TBE Open Discussion forum 
   http://www.the-butterfly-effect.org/


Regards,

Peter van Ginneken, Klaas van Gend
and everyone who contributed to TBE
